What do I know about SUMO?

SUMO stands for Simulator of Urban MObility, it is an open source tool developed in germany for traffic networks researchers. SUMO is Time-discreet and Space-continuous. Time in SUMO is defined in specific intervals, and space (ie: vehicle positions) is defined with floating-point coordinates. SUMO is used to examine the behavior of a road network. This includes road/lane density, travel time(s) and emissions. SUMO is an actor-scenario model, where actors (vehicles) act on the scenario (road network). 

SUMO is ultimately composed of networks and vehicles, but there are more nuanced relationships behind the scenes. Networks consist of vertices (junctions) and edges (which can have multiple lanes). This allows SUMO networks to be examined as graphs in the traditional sense. To avoid busywork spent building sample networks, networks can be built with NETGENERATE or imported from OpenStreetMap <use example>. Additionally, vehicles and their routes can be defined manually or with automated tools. RandomTrips.py is used to setup trips for randomly generated Vehicles (TRIPs are src, dest pairs and ROUTES are the execution of the paths to satisfy such pairs).

SUMO is used to define networks and the vehicles which traverse them. Routes may be computed by SUMO Offline (before simulation execution). SUMO is NOT a tool for in-simulation routing and rerouting. Dependencies must be introduced to support this in SUMO (TracI). 

SUMO can be used for analyizing the behavior of traffic on road networks, particularly in urban environments. This allows vehicle performance (ie: Travel time, emissions) to be analzyed and compared between different routing mechanisms (ie: naive dijkstra vs density-reactive dijkstra vs pheromone-repellent ant colony optimization). From the SUMO wiki, use cases include traffic light optimization, route choice and re-routing, vehicular communication methods, and traffic forecasting. 

The relavent to this project is the second point - routing and re-routing. The goal of this project is to evaluate the performance tradeoffs between density-reactive dijkstra and density-repellent ACO. Improvements on existing ACO methods (especially pheromone repellent ACO) will also be investigated. SUMO does not natively support online routing and re-routing. Therefore, TraCI will be used to direct vehicles and re-evaluate their routes on changes in arterial density.
